Hello everybody and welcome in this lecture.
We're going to throw this out the way.
There we go.
So in this lecture we are going to add a sound to our doors at the moment is going to play the same
sounds.
You can change it out if you want.
And I think I'm a bit short actually at the moment.
I do look tiny compared to this door.
I can't see out so I'm going to adjust the height of the eyes as well.
But we've got a sound playing when the doors open and a sound playing when the doors shut.
Let's go do this okay everybody.
So let's get started with this.
The first thing we want to do is select the doors and go ahead and add a new component much like we
would normally do.
And we're going to add an audio component and we can see there if we hover over it's an audio component
is used to play sound and we hold down control and also at the same time we can go down to the full
documentation and that will open up and give us lots of information about it.
Which of course you can go through and read and familiarize yourself with the details.
However much like the open door component we're going to have to make sure we protect ourselves because
if we go ahead and add to that audio component and let's just call it door sound if we go ahead and
add that's to our mesh like we've done we're going to have to make sure we protect ourselves as well.
Because if for some reason a door doesn't have that on we will end up with a crash.
Again as we've seen before now we've got another door here.
I'm going to go ahead and make sure that they both got an audio source on them.
And here we go audio one again I'm just going to call this door.
I call this one door sound Door door sound is absolutely fine.
Okay.
So with those named appropriately let's go over into the code and start having a look.
So the first thing to do is work out how we go into going get that particular door sound.
And we've already done something similar in the past.
If we go and find in our grab a component we the input component we go and get the owner and then we
find a component by class to go back up the hierarchy and then we look for a specific type of component.
Now this point you might not be sure what you're looking for which can be a bit of a disadvantage but
we know it's going to be a component.
We know it's going to be perhaps sound perhaps audio and it's likely to have you on the front as well
okay.
So after a tiny bit of googling you can very quickly find the fact that that you audio component is
likely what you're looking for is used to play a sound that's exactly what we want.
Now if we go down here we can see that there's a hash include.
So we're going to include that because that's what we're using.
There are plenty of variables down here and of course when we get to the functions we can see the other
things that we can do.
So there's quite a lot here and it will vary how you use this depending on whether it's an instance
of a sound where a door is opening or perhaps music playing in the background.
You're going to play those slightly differently and play is probably what we're looking for here.
Here we go start a sound playing on an audio component so we know what function we're going to call
and we can actually change the start time.
Now the audio sound that we are going to use is attached in the resources against this lecture.
So if you go ahead and download that now within the content folder I'm going to make a new folder called
sounds and then within there I can import and you should also have.
Let's go to my downloads.
Here we go.
The door locks sound it's a very short sound if we press play.
We will get a preview of it.
Now there are a couple of ways of attaching sound components to objects or actors in our scene with
the objects selected and the door sound component.
There we can just click and drag the door lock across.
That's one way of popping it in there.
Then the details tab itself.
Let's just make this area a bit bigger so we can focus on it.
The other door here for instance if we go to the door sound we can use this dropdown to select it or
search assets.
So there you go two ways of doing that.
So we have a door lock sound on the how are we going to go ahead and actually play it.
Well we're going to go ahead and find the owner and then look back up the hierarchy for our sound and
if we just bring our documentation back up we can go and grab the include file that we need.
So this is components audio so let's copy that over and our code at the top of the Open Door implementation.
We can pop it in there.
Making sure we're only including the bits that we need to.
OK.
So now we have the hash include there.
Let's go ahead and look at the rest of our code how we go going to go ahead and grab that will we need
to store it somewhere as well.
So let's draw inspiration for from what we've done before.
So here we've got the input component.
And if we have a look at the header file that input component was declared like so and then initialized
with a null pointer and we're going to have to do a similar thing here.
But for our audio component and we can keep the naming very similar.
So let's go ahead.
We've got a new property here.
And one thing that we should probably do whilst we're here we haven't really talked about it.
If we go to the open door had a file we were using new property and edit anywhere for anything that
we wanted to expose.
Now ideally according to the unreal documentation anything that's got you preceding it should also have
the property there.
Otherwise that macro won't be able to tidy and clean things up for us.
That's kind of the basis of what's going on there.
So this should really read you property and then we've just got our empty brackets there and the same
for the one above.
And let's give ourselves with the space there.
OK.
So with that in mind are there any others that we need to change with that.
I don't think so.
Sit down here we're going to have a new property again and it's going to be a new audio component and
we can see it's come up there and it's going to be a pointer just like before and I'm going to call
this audio components and of course we need to initialize it as a null pointer otherwise we could have
an undefined behavior.
Okay.
So that's that bits of it done.
The next thing we need to do in the implementation is actually go ahead and get it.
So once again if we refer back to the grabber what we set up the income input component and we find
the physics handle.
So what we were doing at this stage here well in this particular case we need to find the audio component
so let's go back to I had a file before we do this and let's go to our function set of functions up
here.
Now what is it returning it's not returning anything.
And we're going to call it find audio component and it certainly isn't changing any of our other values
so can be a concert over in the implementation and added in here for the moment.
So we've got a void you open door Columbo on find audio component.
Excellent.
It's a constant function.
Let's go ahead and define it.
Now this is the parts where we can also pop in an error log if necessary.
So here is where we take our audio component variable that we've made and we Satyarthi could too.
Now if you feel brave enough to copy essentially what we've done before have you want a mini challenge
here you can try and complete this and for the rest of us.
Well this is going to be gets owner.
So we've gone up the hierarchy now we need to go back down and one of the ways of doing that is to find
component by class we open up our Chevron.
Now what we looking for we're looking for a new audio component that looks pretty good to me.
Now if there's not one of these this would be a great place to actually alert us to that fact.
Now why has this got a squiggle on it.
It turns out that this can't be const.
That's absolutely fine let's remove that from a function.
Perfect.
So this is where we can go ahead and protect ourselves.
So here we can say if we could say not audio components we can log out say you a log log temp comma.
This is the severity of an error.
Because if we didn't catch it it could potentially cause a crash as an error and then our text.
What are we going to say here we're going to say percentage s missing audio component or something along
those lines.
And then of course we need to we need to d reference for the F string we get home now and then we get
name I believe.
Yeah.
There we go.
And finally the semicolon on the end.
Now if we go down to where the door opens Here we go and we want to play that sound how are we going
to do it.
Well we can simply go audio component and then we can call that play function on it.
Now there will be a potential issue with this but that will be part of your challenge to solve because
we're also going to play it when the door shuts and if we do that we're going to end up with a little
bit of an issue.
Let's find out what it is.
Let's compile our code now apparently there's a problem with line 42 and I've been staring at it for
about 30 seconds and I realize that I tried to do an error operator and failed and that was the problem
there.
Even though the red squiggle was all the way over here talk about misdirection.
Okay let's check our code I'm going to press play and I'm going to stop pressing play quite quickly.
You ready
okay.
So that's the sound playing over and over and over and over again and we don't want that and that will
be part of your challenge to sort out.
However the other thing that I want to show you before then is on the sound itself if you go to your
door sound component and scroll all the way down in the details.
This will catch you out under activation there's an auto activates that will play the sound.
The moment that you press play.
We don't want that on.
Otherwise you'll be confused as to why a sound is playing when you've not asked for it in code.
Okay.
So that leads us onto our challenge okay.
So we're almost there.
And your challenge is fuck the system.
Okay.
So your challenge is for consistency and readability.
But the pressure plate log in it's own function.
So then the begin play reads really well then the big one here makes the sound play once on open door
and once on closed door.
Now if you don't want a hint pause the video now and give that a go for the rest of us.
Well the possible hints here because you could approach it in a few different ways.
Use at least one binary switch as in a two to track if the sound has been played.
So in that particular example you would have a boolean has the sound been played and you can set it
to one if it has zero.
If it hasn't played video now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead make our code a little bit more consistent and make the sound only play the ones.
Okay so the first thing here is I'm going to tidy up this if pressure plate that's going on here so
that's going to be very similar to the find audio component.
So we're going to find the pressure plates.
Now again it is up to you which way round you do these sorts of things.
I'm going to start here with find pressure plate so that's a call to a function that doesn't exist yet.
Let's go ahead and create that function doesn't return anything.
There we go.
Let's go back into the implementation and right.
That's who we got off find audio and then we're going to find pressure plates a void you open door.
Caroline along fine pressure plates.
Thirdly the semicolon there.
Open up are curly braces and grab this bit of code here and pop it down here out of the way with the
correct indentation for readability.
OK so that looks good to me.
I'm going to bring these two things together it's going to find the pressure plate.
Find the audio component.
If those don't exist it'll log out an error message which is really useful would check that in the moments
as well and make sure it is working as expected.
Now comes the the meat of it.
We are going to be playing back the sound at the moment.
Let's run through the code as the computer would.
So we have a look at the Tick component.
We're saying if the total mass of the actors is greater than the mass open the doors then we're going
to open the door.
So when we start the game open door won't be running but closed door well.
And what does closed door do.
Well every single frame it is playing the audio so we all need a binary switch to say stop playing the
audio as entirely up to you how you manage this.
I'm going to pop in the header file here.
Billions.
So I'm gonna have a boolean for Open Door sound and a boolean for closed door sound.
Now I am going to set them some initial values.
So thinking about the open door sound it will have not been played so we can set that equal to False
the boolean for the closed door sound.
Well it has already been closed.
When we start the game they all start closed.
So this is going to be true.
I think that may come back to bite me.
I'm not shocked by think that's the case that we need it right.
The next thing we need to do here is once we played that sound we can say close door sound equals true.
So it has actually happened now we played the sound.
So now we can encapsulate that in a little if statement.
So if closed door sound is not true.
So if not closed or sound I mean would a better name for that be closed or sound played.
I'm not sure but if not the closed door sound then what we want to do is play back the audio and set
the closed door sound to true which means that if this continues to loop it won't play it anymore.
So is that enough.
No not quite.
We need another layer of protection in here.
We need to say Yves because we are using the audio component there.
So if there isn't one for whatever reason if the code gets this far we say if not audio component return
thus taking us all the way out of the closed door function.
Okay I will add a bit whitespace in there so these things are conceptually separate and we could pop
this in its own function as well.
I'm going to leave it there for the moment for testing as compiler code cross fingers we've not made
any mistakes okay with the compile complete when I press play I'm expecting no sound which is fine but
when I now go into the trigger volume over here I'm expecting a continuous sound.
And they you go the door shuts.
Perfect.
So that's what I want to happen.
That looks good to me.
Let's go and work on the open door side of things.
Okay so we're going to have a very similar thing going on over here.
So first of all let's protect ourselves.
We know we're going to need to do that first.
So if not audio component then we are going to return.
Let's get rid of the extra characters appeared there and then we're going to say if so if not open doors
sound.
There we go.
So saying if it hasn't played then we can go ahead and play it.
And then finally we need to set the open door sound equal to true because it's played.
Okay that looks good.
I hope.
Let's give it a little bit of separation that go over into one real and compile with a compile complete
compress play.
Now hopefully we will now trigger it and we're not quite there yet.
Something's missing.
So let's run through it logically.
What is going on.
So what is open door set to false.
So we're saying if this is false play the sound and then set the open sound to true but nothing is setting
it back to FALSE again so that it doesn't run.
Let's sort out this indentation here as well.
So think to prevent these bouncing backwards and forwards.
What we need to do is just before this say that the open door.
No the closed door sound sets to false and then at this point here on line 93 the open door sound is
set to false.
Let's save our code I believe that will fix the horrible noise compile our code with a compile complete
let's press play.
Excellent.
Let's go back.
It's open perfect.
And it's closed.
Excellent.
Now let's test it and make sure it's working.
So in the log here I'm just going to clear the log down.
I'm going to go to one of my doors and remove the door sound component.
I'm going to save my scene so that's it.
If it does crash we won't have any show going to clear the log again and I'm going to press clock.
Look at that we've got an error that the door itself over here is missing an audio component and all
being well it should also mean we don't get any crashing.
That's really awesome.
So at the moment we can we can hear the door still working like that because while one of the doors
does have it on.
Okay so I'm gonna add the audio component back again.
There we go.
As useful as pick that up save it and the final thing I want to do there is we don't need to log out
anymore what is on the pressure plate which is this bit down here so let's get rid of that and that's
nice and clean.
Okay so one final sweep through on the header file itself.
I do want to say here that this tracks whether the sound has been played.
OK.
That I like and everything else here is fine.
Brilliant.
How did you guys get on.
And that pretty much brings us to the end of this tech demo.
So what we can do now is make our level a bit more exciting and make it more of a game and we'll be
doing that over in the next lecture.